- [Instructor] Now that we have the entire database
code set up, the connection, the query, everything,
let's move on to the service implementation.
So let's go to the IDE.
So this was our DB code.
Now let's recollect that we have generated the stubs
and those stubs sit in the target folder.
And under that, we have the service class
which is UserServiceGrpc.
That is the class now that we want to extend
and implement the method of get user details.
So let's do that next.
Let's close this
and let's basically close all of these files.
Let's add a package here.
This will be com.shopping.service
and let's add a class which is UserService
and since it is the implementation of the stub,
I'll call it, impl.
Now this class should basically extend
the User service grpc.
This is the wrong import.
In case you're not able to see that class,
you just have to go to the Maven tab,
refresh the project once more
to make sure that it gets reflected.
There we go.
So you have UserServiceGrpc
and to that there is an inner class
called UserServiceImplBase.
That is the one that we need to grab
in order to implement our RPC service method.
So let's go to the next slide.
What is a method that we want to implement?
The method that we defined in our proto file,
it's already available to us,
so I'm just going to say Ctrl + Enter, and there we go.
We have the getUserDetails method.
This is the service implementation
that we are going to write
which is basically coming from the service step.
That is the UserServiceGrpc class.
It has got two method parameters.
It takes in a user request that should contain the username
if you recollect, and there is a stream observer.
So before we get into the parameters
I'm just going to quickly open the proto file once more
so that we refresh our memory.
We have a method called getUserDetails
that takes in a user request message
and returns a userResponse.
So this implementer is going to do the same thing for us.
That's the method, which takes the request
and additionally, it has got a stream observer parameter.
This is a special interface that the server is going to use
to call with it ready response.
That is the one that we're going to use
in the subsequent implementation of this method
to send the response back to the client.
Let's go ahead with implementation.
I'm going to eliminate the call off super,
we don't need that on line 11,
instead, I'll first the UserDao class
so that I'm able to grab all the data
from the database call.
So I say UserDao and let's create an instance.
Once we do this,
the data can be collected in the domain object.
Let's import this shopping DB
and on the UserDao,
I am just going to quickly call the getDetails method.
And this will take the username.
The username sits inside our user request
that is available as a parameter on line number 12.
So let's just retrieve that, there we go, simple.
So we made a call to the database layer to get the details.
Now, we have to transform that user domain object on line 14
to the response object after proto.
So, how do we do that?
We've already discussed before
that whenever you want to play around with the objects
that correspond to your message types,
you have the builder design pattern that gRPC uses.
So if you see on your left pane,
there is a UserRequestBuilder,
there's a UserResponseBuilder.
These are the classes that we're going to use
in order to construct the objects
corresponding to the message types in our proto file.
So now, to construct a response object, let's use a builder.
What we will do is let's say UserResponse.Builder
give it a name.
Let me correct the spelling that will be response
and how will you do this?
Let's call UserResponse,
there's a method called newBuilder.
And on that, I'm going to say setId
and to set the Id, I'm going to retrieve the value basically
from the domain object, which is on line 14.
So I'm transferring the data from the database layer
to the proto objects.
That's what I'm doing.
So let's do that one by one, similarly set the other fields
setUsername,
set the Name,
setAge
and setGender.
Now, if you recollect gender in our proto file was an enum.
So I'm going to convert the string value
that we got from the database
into the corresponding enum value inside the proto object.
Simple, what you can do is use the gender enum
and call the valueOf method.
And to this valueOf method,
we can quickly pass in the string.
There it is.
So we have transformed all the database layer properties
to our proto objects.
The final thing that we will do is,
we will build this object.
So I'm just going to say, UserResponse.
That is a proto object that we have,
and that we will get from the build method of the builder.
So we first created a builder on line 17
and then we set the properties
to all the fields using that builder,
and then on line 24, we're just calling the build method
which will finally build
that entire user response object for us.
The last of the steps that we need to do here is
that we need to grab that response observer
and on that we have a method called onNext.
So this is the method which will be used
to return that user response back to the client.
Additionally, on the response observer,
you also have to call onCompleted.
This method is going to ensure
that the RPC call gets completed, simple.
So debiejava userService implementation
which is going to implement the methods of your server step.